
# Table of Contents

1.  [Daily Issues:](#orga7535d8)
    1.  [Check if silkies are eating](#org2099c77)
2.  [Things to do:](#org0fb776a)
    1.  [Red Mites](#org08a2616)
    2.  [Rats](#org5afd069)
        1.  [Traps](#org626bc11)
        2.  [Poison](#org1cdfff0)
    3.  [Hen Taming](#orgec17e4e)

$\HUGE Chicken Documentation$


<a id="orga7535d8"></a>

# Daily Issues:


<a id="org2099c77"></a>

## Check if silkies are eating

I am currently unsure whether the silkies know how to use the feeders properly. Please keep an eye out, and make sure they get food one way or another.
Even if the amount of food in the feeder is going down, this does not necessarily mean that *chickens* are eating it!


<a id="org0fb776a"></a>

# Things to do:


<a id="org08a2616"></a>

## Red Mites

There are red mites in at least one of the houses, and they are upsetting the girls + causing them to sleep outside.
The house needs creosoting.

At some point the wooden perch grid needs replacing with wall-mounted individual (dowel?) perches.


<a id="org5afd069"></a>

## Rats

Lots of rats feed off the run, as we all know. Ideally the food would all go to
the chickens! For some reason the rats seem to exclusively target the purebreed
run. I've elevated the feeder, which will hopefully reduce rat stealage. I am
somewhat worried this will also reduce chicken access to the feeder.

Here are some potential tactics:


<a id="org626bc11"></a>

### Traps

The use of traps is a difficult issue, as we do not want to hurt Coco/chickens.
I suggest we shut chickens in their house (as in **hatch closed**!) at night, and
lay traps overnight. Then retrieve traps in the morning **before letting the
chickens out**. Do this every night and rat numbers + thievery should decrease.
This has the added advantage of stopping rats from coming in with the chickens
at night + leaving droppings&#x2026;


<a id="org1cdfff0"></a>

### Poison

I am rather worried about this idea! I do not like it. If a cat catches+eats a
poisoned rat, this will presumably end badly. Likewise, if a poisoned rat dies
in the run and is swarmed by hens, this is also no good. No poison! Unless the
way the poison works means this wouldn't be an issue.


<a id="orgec17e4e"></a>

## Hen Taming

I have some very friendly hens. This is due to the large amount of attention I
give them every day. Qualified gentle Horns who feel comfortable safely handling
animals: Please go in the run and hand feed the girls some of the scraps and
corn you give them!

You may find this rather painful, as the new girls have not yet learned to be
gentle. Please persevere! Your skin will thicken.

The purebreeds are rather nervous, so you may find it difficult to convince them
to handfeed. Give them time! They have become rather friendly with me, so it's
certainly possible.

